a spacecraft flies near earth and
releases an object which enters the
atmosphere
on a central american beach dutch a
retired vietnam war veteran
and his elite mercenary rescue team
poncho billy
mack blaine and hawkins are tasked by
dutch's former commanding officer
general phillips with rescuing a foreign
cabinet minister and his aide held
hostage by insurgents
officer dylan an old friend of duchess
from the vietnam war
is assigned to accompany the team over
dutch's objections
the team discovers the wreckage of a
helicopter in three skinned corpses
identified by dutch's green berets out
of fort bragg that he knew personally
dutch's team reaches the enemy camp and
kills all of the guerrillas
including soviet intelligence officers
confronted by dutch dylan admits the
mission was a setup to retrieve
intelligence from captured operatives
and that the dead green berets
disappeared weeks earlier in a failed
rescue
after capturing anna the only surviving
guerrilla
the team proceeds to its extraction
point unaware that they are being
tracked with thermal imaging by an
unseen observer anna escapes and is
chased by hawkins
but they are ambushed by a cloaked
creature
it spares anna but kills hawkins and
drags his body away
dutch organizes a search for hawkins
body
during which blaine is killed by the
creature
enraged mack initiates a firefight that
wounds the creature
revealing luminescent green blood the
unit regroups and realizes that
something in the jungle is stalking them
dylan believes more gorillas are
responsible but billy is adamant that
the predator
is not human an assertion that is met
with skepticism
the team makes camp for the night
setting traps in all directions
that night the traps are set off and
matt kills a wild boar
mistaking it for the creature in the
confusion
the creature steals blaine's body and
dutch realizes that their enemy uses the
trees to travel
making their traps ineffective a second
attempt to capture the creature
using a net momentarily succeeds but it
escapes easily
leaving pancho injured mack and dylan
try to pursue it
but the alien outmaneuvers and kills
them
the creature then catches up with the
others killing billy and pancho and
wounding dutch
realizing the creature does not target
unarmed prey because there is
no sport in it dutch sends anna to the
helicopter
unarmed the creature pursues dutch into
a river and moves within a few feet of a
mud-covered dutch
his thermal signature reduced dutch
remains unseen by the creature and it
moves on
dutch realizes he can use mud as
camouflage
while the creature collects trophies
from the dead soldiers
dutch crafts traps and weapons and lures
the creature to him
he disables the creature's cloaking
device and inflicts minor injuries
but falls into the water losing his mud
camouflage
the creature subdues dutch and wishing
to fight him on equal terms
it discards its energy weapon and mask
and engages dutch in hand-to-hand combat
dutch is almost beaten but manages to
crush the creature under a trap's
counterweight
as the creature lies dying dutch asks
the question
what the hell are you to which the
creature replies back to him the same
question as well before activating a
self-destruct device and laughing madly
with billy's voice
realizing what the creature has done
dutch runs from it as quickly as he can
he manages to take cover just before the
device explodes and is later rescued by
philips and anna with a helicopter
movie ends in that scene